---
layout: post
lang: en
title: Название Статьи
tags: [dev]
---

## Output Address Format  

<!-- more -->

Media address has three parts:  

`type://address#options`  
#### type

Describes which type of the source should be used. Available next types:  

- **udp** — UDP multicast, unicast, or broadcast  
- **rtp** — based on the UDP  
- **http** — HTTP based protocols. MPEG-TS, HLS (HTTP Live Streaming)  
- **resi** — DVB Adapters. Receive streams from DVB-S/S2, DVB-T/T2, DVB-C, ISDB-T, and ASI devices  
- **file** — MPEG-TS Files  
- **np** — NetworkPush is a protocol based on HTTP. To upload streams to the server  

#### address

Source specific address  

#### options

Options could be source specific and general. Options should divided by the & symbol. For example:  

`resi://#adapter=0&frequency=346&modulation=QAM256`  

### UDP/RTP

`udp://[interface@]address[:port]`  
`rtp://[interface@]address[:port]`  
- **interface** — IPv4 address or name of the local interface. By the default uses system route table  
- **address** — IPv4 address of the stream. Multicast or Unicast  
- **port** — port number. Default: 1234  
Additional options:

- **ttl=TTL** — time to live for UDP packet. Default: 32  
- **no_sync** — stream synchronization is a uniform transmission of the stream based on the PCR label. Astra calculates total size of the block between two PCR labels and the actual rate of the block. This option disables this feature
- **cbr=RATE** — append NULL-TS packets into the stream to get constant bitrate. Value should be in KBit/s  
Examples:  

`udp://239.255.1.1:1234`  
`udp://eth0@239.255.1.1`  
`udp://239.255.1.1:1234#cbr=8000`  

### HTTP

`http://interface:port[/path]`  
- **interface** — address of the local interface or 0 to accept connection from any interface
- **port** — port number. Default: 80
- **path** — path to the resource. For HLS-output at the end of path should be /index.m3u8 Default: /
Additional options for HLS stream:

- **duration=5** — segment length in seconds. Default: 5  
- **quantity=6** — how many segments keep in memory. Default: 6
- **no_auth** — access to the stream without authentication
Additional options for MPEG-TS stream:  

- **buffer_size=SIZE** — size, in kilobytes, of the client buffer. Buffer allocated for each connection and prevents data loss on the transmission delays. Default: 1024
- **buffer_fill=SIZE** — minimal data size, in kilobytes, should be collected before transmission to client. Default: 256
- **no_auth** — access to the stream without authentication
Examples:

`http://0:10000/channel-id/index.m3u8#no_auth` — HLS stream  
`http://0:10000/channel-id — MPEG-TS stream`  

### RESI

RESI — is a DVB-C modulator by the DigitalDevices

`resi://#adapter=0&device=0&frequency=346&modulation=QAM256`
Options:

- **adapter** — is a number of RESI adapter in the system: /dev/dvb/adapter0
- **device** — is a number of modulator on the RESI adapter: /dev/dvb/adapter0/mod0
- **frequency** — transponder frequency
- **symbolrate** — transponder symbol rate. Default: 6900
- **modulation** — DVB-C modulation. Possible values: QAM16, QAM32, QAM64, QAM128, QAM256. Default: QAM64
- **attenuator** — reduce the signal strength. Value should be in range from 0 to 10. Default: 0

### MPEG-TS File

`file://path`
- **path** — path to the file
Examples:

`file:///mnt/raid0/file.ts`

### Network Push

Network Push is an HTTP-based media streaming protocol. It works by transmitting data from client to the server. For example, used to transmit streams to the transcoding cloud.

`np://[login:password@]address[:port][/path]`
- **login:password** — login and password for Basic/Digest authentication
- **address** — address of the Network Push server
- **port** — port number. Default: 80
- **path** — path to the resource. Default: /
Examples:

`np://media.example.com/channel-id`

