---
layout: post
lang: ru
title: Input Address Format
tags: [dev]
---

Input Address Format

<!-- more -->

Media address has three parts:

**```type://address#options```**

##### type

Describes which type of the source should be used. Available next types:

**udp** — UDP multicast, unicast, or broadcast  
**rtp** — based on the UDP  
**http** — HTTP based protocols. MPEG-TS, HLS (HTTP Live Streaming)  
**rtsp** — Real Time Streaming Protocol to receive streams from IP cameras  
**dvb** — DVB Adapters. Receive streams from DVB-S/S2, DVB-T/T2, DVB-C, ISDB-T, and ASI devices  
**file** — MPEG-TS Files  
##### address

Source specific address

##### options

Options could be source specific and general. Options should divided by the & symbol.  
For example:  
**```dvb://a001#pnr=100&cam```**


#### Input specific options


### UDP/RTP

```**udp://[interface@]address[:port][#options]**```
```**rtp://[interface@]address[:port][#options]**```
- **interface** — IPv4 address or name of the local interface. By the default uses system route table
- **address** — IPv4 address of the stream. Multicast or Unicast
- **port** — port number. Default value: 1234
Additional options for Input:

**renew=INTERVAL** — renew the multicast subscription after the defined time  
Examples:  

`udp://239.255.1.1`  
`udp://eth0@239.255.1.1`  
`udp://127.0.0.1:10000`  
`udp://239.255.1.1:1234#sync`  

### RTSP

```rtsp://[login:password@]address[:port][/path]```
- **login:password** — login and password for rtsp authentication, basic or digest
- **address** — server IPv4 address or domain
- **port** — port number. Default value: 554
- **path** — path to the resource. Default value: /


### HTTP

**`http://[login:password@]address[:port][/path]`**
- **login:password** — login and password for http authentication
- **address** — server IPv4 address or domain. For Output, an address of the local interface or 0 to accept connection from any interface
- **port** — port number. Default value: 80
- **path** — path to the resource. Default value: /

Additional options:
- **ua=USER-AGENT** — custom value for User-Agent header. Default value: Astra
- **timeout=TIMEOUT** — timeout, in seconds, for establishing a connection with a server. Default value: 10
- **buffer_size=SIZE** — the receiving buffer size, in kilobytes. Default value: 1024
- **buffer_time=TIME** — Buffer size in seconds - alternative buffer_size

To receive HTTPS source need to use additional proxy, nginx for example, because Astra doesn't support HTTPS yet.  
Create configuration file /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/astra with content:  
```
server {
    listen 30000;
    server_name _;

    location / {
        proxy_cache off;
        expires -1;
        proxy_ssl_server_name on;
        proxy_pass https://example.com:8000;
    }
}
```
### MPEG-TS File

**```file://path```**
- **path** — path to the file  
Additional options for Input:  

**loop** — start playing from the beginning after the end of file  
Examples:  

`file:///mnt/raid0/file.ts`

### General options

- **pnr=PNR** — program number, also known as SID (Service ID). Extract a program with defined number from the stream
- **set_pnr=PNR** — set custom PNR
- **set_tsid=TSID** — set custom TSID (Transport Stream ID)
- **biss=1122330044556600** — BISS key to descramble a program
- **cam** — use DVB-CI to descramble a program
- **cam=CAM-ID** — specify the Softcam connection to descramble a program
- **ecm_pid=PID** — select the ECM PID (not recommend to use)
- **shift=X** — the decryption buffer for incoming stream, in megabits, allow to make a delay before decrypt a stream. This option may be needed for the "Sky" channels. To calculate a shift value need to multiply bitrate of the stream and delay in seconds. For example 10Mbit stream * 3 seconds will be shift=30
- **cas** — transmit data for Conditional Access System. Use this option to transmit encoded stream
- **filter=N,… **— stream filter, remove data with defined identifiers (PID). Identifiers should be comma separated
- **filter~=N,…** — stream filter, remove all data except defined identifiers (PID) and the service data. Identifiers should be comma separated
- **map.SRC=DST** — change data identifiers (PID) to the custom value. SRC - is an original identifier or type of the data. Possible types is pmt, video, audio or language descriptor. DST - is a custom PID. Value should be in range from 16 to 8190
- **no_sdt** — remove service description: service name, provider name. SDT - Service Description Table
- **pass_sdt** — pass SDT without processing. By the default, if pnr is defined Astra transmits information about current stream only
- **no_eit** — remove event information: EPG. EIT - Event Information Table
- **no_analyze** — do not analyze this input for possible errors and changes in the data table
- **pass_eit** — pass EIT without processing. By the default, if pnr is defined Astra transmits information about current stream only
- **no_reload** — turn off a checking of the changes in the stream
- **cc_limit=N** — set the CC-Errors limit. If the number of the CC-Errors will be more than limit then Astra will try to switch to next source. By the default limit is not set. CC (Continuity Counter) is a serial number of the data packets. CC-Error - violation of the packets sequence due to the loss of data
- **bitrate_limit=RATE** — set a minimal bitrate for analyzer in Kbit/s. Mark source as corrupted if the stream rate less than the bitrate limit value. Default values: 16 Kbit/s for stream without video data and 128 Kbit/s for stream with video data
